LinkedIn Profile: https://www.linkedin.com/in/wilreynolds/
Post 1: https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7472731838130618368/
Caption: AI prompt tracking question I always get: I'm picking between X & Y prompt tracking vendor, which one is better?  When I wished the question I got was: How can I improve the quality of the prompts I'm choosing to track?
We compared our first UX AI tests against our most recent one and started seeing some shifts in consumer interaction and behavior when using AI to complete tasks...

⬆️ 300% personal information into their AI prompts.
⬆️ 270% in "delegation" prompts (i.e. do this thing for me).
⬇️ 83% in prompts that look like "keyword search"
⬆️ 25% increase - median prompt length

Any of you out there trying to get this kind of information to influence your AI optimization strategy?
Link Attached: https://lnkd.in/ePiQyB7K
Image Attached: Wil post 1.jpg

Post 2: https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7472396990115659776/
Caption: Very open to being challenged on this, but I am feeling like we're not talking enough about the training data gap.
If you are making content and allowing it to not ship, you could launch it a few days after a training cutoff and then for answers given by training data, you could be waiting 18+ months for the next model. 
To me this is why if you are trying to really change something about your brand or your visibility, getting the quality content out there that can change training-based answers has a different ROI if it gets in before or after a training cutoff.  
I'm also thinking a lot about the universe of factors that could influence what an AI says about your brand on a risk, impact, and trackability continuum.  
I've had VC backed speedsters asking for what we can do in 30 days and I've got 100 year old banks asking the same question.  What can you show in 30-90 days.  But what impacts that is my skills and some luck but also their ability or inability to move on changes.
I went to my HR team, got our turnover data and changed an answer about my brand in weeks. But I own the business, I can't imagine a marketer wanting higher AI visibility to want to have to go ask HR for their metrics to make public.  
I find myself thinking always...what can you change on your site and how long does that take? or what other divs are open to a collaboration? These things impact results and risk.
Some tactics (listicles) are higher risk, fast impact, and high trackability - meaning they are the right match for a certain type of compan
Other tactics (publishing a study in an emerging space) are lower risk, slower (requires coordination and client willingness to open up on data to help us change brand perception), and mid level tracking.

But the CMO who is contemplating a soccer team sponsorship or stadium sponsorship and asks me how it could impact AI answers is playing a different game. It's low risk, extremely slow, and very low on trackability it's a long term play for 500 other reasons, of which ai is only one.

This is a complex time. Without a lot of easy answers. I love it. 
