YouTube Link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mJ8ipSF97AA
Transcription:
00:00:02
 Hi everyone, thanks for joining us again. Another Search Pilot webinar. My name is Will Critchlow and hopefully many of you know me by now. A lot of the conversations I've been having recently have we've touched on AI, obviously. And this time we have the perfect guest to dive even deep deeper and and more specifically into how AI is changing everything we know about marketing and about search. So, Britney Muller, long old friend of mine and now running Orangelabs.co, which is a a community, a home for

00:00:38
 marketers who build with AI. And she has gone way down the rabbit hole, I think, of all things AI and definitely got to this game early before many of us saw the steam train coming. So, Britney, welcome. Great to have you here. Thank you so much for having me. It feels great to be here. I'm excited to chat with you. Yeah, for sure. So, let's start at the beginning. Um you speak to a lot of people who are themselves getting to grips with what AI is meaning for their for their job, but also for their business and their

00:01:11
 their clients, maybe, depending on what their role is. So, how are you seeing people most effectively explain the changes, particularly to AI search? How how people explaining this well to bosses, co-workers, clients? What are you seeing? Yeah, this is tricky. I feel like it's one of those things that is best explained by showing them. You know, showing them through the different platforms, whether it's Google, how these things are showing up, how they're populating different sources from those

00:01:44
 background queries. And then also showing how, you know, random it sort of can feel, right? If you go to ChatGPT and you put in the same prompt several times, you're going to inevitably get very different results and I feel it's so helpful to really, really demonstrate that and to walk people through the process so that they can really kind of grasp what's happening under the hood and you can better kind of set the conversation up to explain the incredible difference from, you know, search engines over

00:02:18
 here, which is true information retrieval to LLMs and how they're kind of working together today. Mhm. And that working together is kind of important. We're going to get more deep into the details, I think, but I think a lot of people have misconceptions about what's going on here or you pointed it there, you know, they think of LLMs as as actually information retrieval as well. What are the kind of most common misconceptions that you see? Oh my gosh, that they rank anything. You know, there's there's no sort of ranking

00:02:51
 within an LLM. It's all probabilistic predicting the next word. Um that they they have some like qualitative assessment of sources, right? They don't even when they're trained, they don't actually capture or cache what URL, the content that they're training on was. Um so, of course, if they've seen specific URLs mentioned a lot in text online, they will have an awareness of that, but they're not indexing or being aware of where this content came from training. It's all mentions. It's all brand

00:03:30
 mentions and I think it's a big that's a big disconnect from how we've traditionally thought about, you know, domains and domain authority. It works very, very differently. Yeah. How are you How are you running into this or what are your thoughts on that? Uh well, so I think you're putting in some really interesting stuff, including things that I haven't been thinking about I I tend to feel I tend to feel more comfortable with the probabilistic stuff. Um I think for a couple of reasons. Partly it's like my

00:04:04
 interests and I I've always like probability and statistics was the area that I was most interested in on the kind of you know kind of academic stuff. Like actually neural networks was stuff that was taught when I was at university but it was this dead end like this this is a really cute idea but it's never going to work. And I was I was studying this stuff in like what 98 and uh you know I would be um a lot more famous and richer if I had been like no this is the future. And I'd stuck with the uh the

00:04:39
 neural network stuff cuz the the thing about that is just the computing power didn't exist to uh to do anything more than a toy neural network. So, they had back propagation and gradient descent and you know all this stuff theoretically but just couldn't actually run it at scale and um so I I've been more comfortable with the fact that it's probabilistic but I haven't I actually haven't for myself done the same query or the same prompt repeatedly just to actually really viscerally like you say

00:05:06
 see that fact that it's it's giving you different answers each time. Um that's a really I'm definitely going to just literally go and do that after this after this conversation. But I've been okay with the you know it gives you a different answer to it gives me or it gives uh varying answers over time. I think even in the kind of more pure information retrieval space we've got okay with personalization we've got okay with geo differences we've even seen uh you know time-based differences right

00:05:39
 query deserves freshness or like queries changing their meaning quite quite rapidly. And so as a as a user those those experiences don't feel too wild, but I definitely struggle with that um uh I I I really like URLs. I Sorry, that's like a geeky but like URLs are are great. I I like I like links. I like clicking on links. Uh you know, this this makes me sound like very uh like some kind of crazy person, but um I do think it's probably the biggest limitation of the LLM tools as a uh just as a tool right now is that they

00:06:17
 don't reliably connect the dots between the information they're giving you and places to go out and and find the next thing. And I'm sure everybody's had this experience of like it confidently giving you a URL and you click on it and it's a 404. And like it's just hallucinated the URL that maybe this information could have come from, but like didn't, right? Yes, exactly. Exactly. >> Um so that that kind of winds me up as a user. I I want I want it to be more closely joined to information retrieval,

00:06:46
 actually, so that I can click on the links and and get more information. And and I I hope that's coming, maybe. Yeah, and they're getting better at that through rag and connecting it to different real-time search results because the large language models today, you know, they take about a year to train. Mhm. And so they're essentially like frozen snapshots in time. And so the only way they're able to kind of amalgamate more accurate, up-to-date answers for you is through retrieving real-time

00:07:17
 search results for various queries. Um my my biggest headache with this and and how you just kind of took us through that brilliant thought process is also like to piggyback on I it drives me nuts and I I get where this comes from, Will, but I really struggle seeing SEOs stuck in the traditional SEO mental model and trying to squeeze AI and LLMs through that mental model thinking that they can reverse engineer this in the same way that we could search results and that there's, you know, ranking factors.

00:07:55
 We're essentially rediscovering SEO here through that retrieval method that is not anything that you're doing to, you know, affect change in a core LLM model. It doesn't work like that. And yeah, and there's so many misconceptions around to your point, like they just confidently deliver the 404 URLs. And if we were to respond to that and enter another follow-up prompt asking like, why did you do that? Where did this come from? It's going to make up something else, right? It has no

00:08:30
 interpretability into its own system. LLMs don't inherently know why or how they predicted different outputs over others or why it generated a 404 for you. And so, I think I I really want to shed light on on this part of of the technology so that SEOs can kind of focus on more um maybe like opportunistic, you know, avenues to go down instead of again trying to kind of take this older mental model and apply it to a technology where it's not one-to-one, not even close, right? This is a completely different system.

00:09:07
 Yeah. Yeah, I've so many things like firing all kinds of ideas. So, one thing that that made me think about was So, you said like reverse engineer like we used to be able to. I actually think that's overstated. I I actually don't think we I think it's a long time since we really understood ranking factors or you know, any of this stuff. And and that's a a drum I've been I've been beating since before AI actually, I think. It just got too complex, right? It got too high-dimensional Um, and too

00:09:37
 two personalized to different by query, by vertical, by competitors, by all these different kinds of things. And I think you there's just been the odd hints when you look back at some of the IR literature from pre-AI era. There was just these odd hints of how much of a trial and discovery process it was even within Google, for example. Uh, there's a great quote, I can't remember which engineer it was from. Um, I think it was on a in a hack and use comment or something. And he was like, you know, we

00:10:07
 just used to try things, right? We we'd be like, have you tried taking the square root of this factor or whatever? And you're like, and he he he's described early in his career challenging that and being like, "No, why would I do that?" And his boss was like, "Well, just to to see if it works, to see if it's better." And like, there's no there wasn't a theoretical underpinning that said, "This will work better if you do all of these things."

00:10:26
 It was just like, tweak this, tweak that, tweak the other, and and see if these things come together. That's such a good point. Um, but yeah, like so and the interpretability thing is another area where I think we we simultaneously get thrown off because they act human-like, right? So, you know, the Turing test is is kind of way in the rearview mirror at this point. Yeah. So, they they seem they seem like people in in a certain way, and yet that throws us off because they will again they will confidently tell you why they

00:10:59
 gave you a 404. It's just not necessarily connected to the the truth in any real way. But I I did warn you about this, though. This is an area where I think we maybe differ is um, I have no problem using a lot of language around what the models want or think or, you know, you you've kind of pushed back on this. I I saw a a note you wrote about like, you know, they they don't want anything, right? They're just No. They say token predictors. Um, I I'm not convinced I'm not a stochastic

00:11:27
 parrot, right? Like, Yeah. Yeah, like, I don't know. May maybe I'm just really well optimized for predicting my next token. Uh but anyway, the the I think there's there is actually a deeper connection there there which is I don't think humans are very good at explaining these things. I there's quite a lot of psychology research, isn't there, but you know, you ask people why they made a decision and it's all post-rationalization. It's all uh yeah, like if you if you actually stop

00:11:53
 them at different places in the process, they would have made a different decision or they would have thought differently or whatever. And actually the reason they think they chose something is not necessarily the the reason they actually did. So, I I kind of sometimes wonder if there's actually a deeper connection or deeper similarity that that we're maybe realizing. I think making that comparison really um undercuts like our consciousness and our real-world intelligence. Like I think it's easy to

00:12:20
 like make these comparisons, but when you really pull back the veil and look at like the human brain and a neural network from an LLM, we we house so many real-world experiences. We have real consciousness. We are able to re- actually reason. I know we throw that word around in the AI community, but these models are not truly reasoning in the in the way that we as humans do. And so, I think it really I I I always tell my students, I'm like, the most advanced neural network in the entire world is sitting

00:12:58
 on your shoulders. Like that we know of today is the human brain. It really is. And actually, when you compare an LLM to babies, and I love these talks at NeurIPS and Melanie Mitchell does a phenomenal job talking and writing about this subject, but comparing the capabilities of like a 1-year-old compared to an LLM and just how advanced a 1-year-old is in their thought process, in their experiments, in dropping things, and learning about shapes. LLMs are not even close. Until we get a system that thinks more like a child and

00:13:38
 more like even animals, right? Animals don't have English or, you know, any sort of language that we speak today. They're incredibly intelligent. And so, I think we have a very narrow view of intelligence today. We also don't have a shared definition, which is hugely problematic in the AI industry, and where most of the argument stem from is there's no shared definition on intelligence, AGI, like we get into all of these like run around Super intelligence, right? Yeah. Yeah, it's

00:14:05
 like what are we talking about? So, it's very easy for people in power to kind of flex and mold these things to fit their narrative, to fit their hype messaging, to attract investors, to attract customers. And they they do sound so human-like. They do sound so confident, but it's so important to remember like um that these were trained on all of the internet. And then and fun fact, they were fine-tuned on Reddit explain it like I'm five. Because of the back and forth in the succinct kind of e- good explaining,

00:14:43
 like that that literally was the subreddit that took GPT-2 to GPT-3 in a way that it could go back and forth. Um a real quick, like kind of embarrassing moment for me in the field, working at Hugging Face, I was on a kind of this red team at at Hugging Face, where we were testing Bloom, the largest open-source multilingual language model in the world. This was before ChatGPT came out. And I'm working with some of the primary, you know, engineers, and we're just trying to like break it and

00:15:14
 test it and see how it goes. But at that time, it's just a continuation engine. So, you would you would literally prompt it, and it was all through we had it connected through Slack. You would literally prompt it. I would write like title and I would put my like article title and then I would start my introduction and then I would let it go or like start a song or a poem and you would let it go. And I got really tired one night and I think there was like six of us working on this like a kind of around the clock

00:15:44
 before lunch. And I asked it a question. I asked it something like who's the best singer in the world or something just silly. And I got so publicly ridiculed for asking a language model a question by one of the main engineers publicly in our huge company channel in all caps. Um this is not how language models work. They're not Q&A machines. They're continuation engines. And so I feel like I have all these little scars. No one really knows about it which is what >> Did you screenshot that?

00:16:20
 I feel like I think I did. I think I did. Because I it was like a you know a hero of mine. Someone that has like pioneered this space. >> You should definitely follow up. Be like I've I've literally I'm always like I wonder what he thinks like if he remembers it or thinks about it now. I would love to >> maybe that's still his opinion. He's like yeah you you should not be typing questions into Gemini. Like don't don't do that. I know. I know but it I you know it's

00:16:45
 funny to say like who's laughing now but he's also right you know like he didn't have to handle it like that. It was obviously like mortifying for me professionally and like in that setting not great not great for me. Um but it was true you know and and at its core these are continuation machines. And we have you know Open AI has done a brilliant job um with guardrails and system prompts and fine-tuning it with the explain it like I'm five subreddit so that it is now really really skilled at

00:17:19
 amalgamating answers from all of this background training and also real-time search results. So it's it's crazy how fast this is all come along. Well, and that's the thing like I think you can be it can simultaneously be true that it can't do none of these things can do things that like you say a one-year-old can do or a you know, a dog can do whatever and yet there are certain things they can do that are useful right now and accelerating in their usefulness as well without getting I mean there's a lot of

00:17:54
 discussion about where the you know, is it is it still accelerating are certain techniques tailing off that I know there's a lot of discussion of world models and whatever that we're not going to go deep into that one. I think we should I think we should focus in on some of the search stuff cuz you mentioned a couple times that the way that the rags that the retrieval augmented generation pulls in such such results and information at query time or at prompt time and I think yeah, those of us who've been around the

00:18:26
 SEO space for a long time remember that Google's journey pre-AI has been very much a journey of discovering that users want fresher and fresher and more up-to-date information. So I think it's no surprise that that's a kind of key part of the the driver here even if they didn't take a year to train, right? Even if they were only months or or weeks out of date. An awful lot of search queries are about like right now. Um and they're either about right now in terms of news or novelty or even just you want

00:18:59
 the up-to-date answer. So if you're we're working a lot in e-commerce now, right? For example, so whether it's pricing, stock information, latest offers, never mind product drops and new uh So I I I think I'm quite bullish on that and it is one of the reasons one of the probably one of the big two or three reasons why I think Google is in actually quite a strong position. I think there's been a lot of concern about their position when OpenAI beat them to the punch with the uh you know, the kind of chat interface.

00:19:31
 But, I think when you look at their vertical integration all the way down to the the chip layer, you look at their um you know, they're the only cutting-edge model attached to a search engine like directly. And they've got all the spam uh and adversarial capabilities. Like, I think I think they're actually in in in kind of a strong place. But, so let let's back up a little bit. Talk Can you talk a little bit about this about grounding and and how that works and how how you encourage people to think about

00:19:59
 that? So, oh, well, I used to be so much more fun. I feel like just a wet blanket. But, no, this is good. This is good to talk about. This grounding I have a whole post drafted up um on this because there's so much misinformation in our space right now as it refers to grounding. So, grounding in the traditional AI sense quite literally means connecting models to real-world sensors, like real-world information, temperature, um like factual databases, like things that are rooted in the real world. And fun

00:20:39
 fact cuz you're statistics background, grounding also originated in statistics and cartology, like mapmaking, where it came from ground truth, where mapmakers would actually have to go out into the real world and validate that their map like was right. >> There actually is a mountain over there. Exactly. So, it it's it was it's been really bizarre to have this kind of you know, awareness of yeah, that's what grounding is in AI. And now in the SEO industry, and to no fault of the SEO industry, it

00:21:12
 has been completely spun into this new thing where we're talking about grounding LLMs in website data. And that is a a giant leap, in my opinion. That is websites are incredibly biased, inherently problematic for all the ways we're aware of. They're written by people about the real world, right? They're not actually connected or tethered to any like real-world information. So, it's a it's a change. It's a big change that in the way that we're talking about. And I just say

00:21:43
 this, and maybe this is again some of my my past experiences. Like, I worry about SEOs talking about grounding in this way because it's going to erode their credibility with AI researchers. It doesn't make sense to an AI researcher to hear grounding used in this way. And I've actually spoken directly to Microsoft about this because for their AI guide, you know, I was interviewed and I went I talked about this at length and was saying, you know, that's not This isn't how we should be talking or

00:22:10
 using the word grounding. Um and then they ultimately ended up posting like the one caveat that I said about grounding into the guide, and they've they've added the metric grounding queries to Bing webmaster tools. And I really urged them. I was like, that's that's an even bigger step, right? Away from website information because now we're just attaching that name to like AI background queries. Um and really using it as a buzzword, and I just feel like it's at the disservice to the wider

00:22:43
 industry. And so, I my heart kind of goes out of when things like this happen, and I see especially pioneers in the space. Like, I love Microsoft, but you should be delivering better information, in my opinion, to SEOs and to marketers that are confused and trying to figure out how to navigate all of this and spoon-feeding them new buzzwords to align to, you know, your messaging and strategy. Like, I don't know. I I get frustrated. That's where I get really frustrated because I >> Well, it's it's a metaphor for the whole

00:23:14
 problem, right? That the you know, I like to say we know some of the people who write the internet and I I I we were always taught don't trust everything you read. And I think the that that problem that you know, I mean, again, it's not new. It's it's been a problem in the information retrieval space for a long time and certainly Google went on this journey with the early one-box results, right? If you remember back to the pre-AI instant answers where the the problem is that the the most

00:23:47
 prevalent thing written on the internet is not necessarily the most true thing. And especially where it's something that touches on, I don't know, a conspiracy theory or something like that, it's quite likely that the the untrue version is the one that people have written about more. More, yeah. Um and so yeah, it it it's been a challenge, I think, all along. We've now got it kind of a hundredfold because it's not only there in our own reading, it's there in the reading in in the way the tools are

00:24:18
 accessing this information as well. And as I was saying, you know, the I've been surprised at how little thought there seems to have been in the adversarial thinking of, you know, you you mentioned red team before. Like, there there've been there's been a lot of red team work on are these things going to tell you dangerous information, right? Can you can you get them to make you a chemical weapon or, you know, whatever, but I've seen much less on the can you convince them to tell you

00:24:47
 something that isn't true or can you publish information that they'll just repeat verbatim without any sense of truthiness. Yeah, exactly. We saw and we saw an example of this recently. I don't know if you saw it. Um I forget where it was, but it was an article that came out and this journalist said, "I hacked Chat GPT by talking about how I won uh like a journalist hot dog eating contest." And then he also >> That's what the headline was. Yeah. Yeah, and then he also references like a

00:25:17
 police officer hula hooping contest. Like when you This is This is SEO like 101, right? When you're able to find a search term that has little to no um demand or, you know, visibility online, you can rank for it really quickly. And so you're essentially hacking search results, which is being retrieved through the LLMs, right? The core models in and of themselves don't aren't being trained on any of these outlier situations. Um So that's been really interesting to like just see people again kind of

00:25:54
 misconstrue what's actually happening under the hood and think and perceiving that as hacking the the LLM itself when it's really you're just kind of finding those outliers in the spaces. To your Into your point, like yeah, how I agree there has not been enough discussion around the misinformation. Like I remember early in AI overviews, someone asked like, "Has a dog ever played in the NBA?" And Google's like, "Of course." Air Bud, like it's everywhere. We've

00:26:20
 heard about this a lot. And it's like, yeah, what are the efforts taking place? And that's something I wish Google was maybe a little bit more transparent about cuz I think it would also, you know, breed more confidence to hear that they're working on this. And especially in the different, you know, medical, lifestyle, like financial spaces that really can affect people. Mm. Yeah. Um Yeah, what Do you hear Do you Do you know how they are thinking about that kind of stuff like it feels to me

00:26:55
 that this is now where Google of all of the frontier labs ought to have A the most experience, B the most understanding of the importance of it, and C an advantage because they've been fighting spam in their in their index and in their search results for what 25 years. Yeah. You know, they they're not very transparent when it comes to this stuff. You know, myself and many others have asked lots of questions around the AI overviews, AI search, who's accountable for when things get wrong, how are you

00:27:27
 going to maintain this ecosystem of you know, essentially eating up the content of these publishers that depend on traffic, you know, and that's how you're creating your your answers. Like there's there's a lot of kind of loose ends that I think still need to be figured out with all of this. Um They and they quickly jumped into this. Um and we saw lots of early problems, right? We still see examples of this. Um so yeah, I I would love to know a little bit more about that, but I don't

00:27:59
 have any unfortunately visibility into how they're doing that. No. Um I I half wonder I I don't expect a lot of transparency out of them in how they're doing it. I do half expect to see to see them realize that they're ahead of the others at some point and and that and then push it from a PR front of like like that Google cuz you know, there's all the benchmarks, there's all these kinds of things, but I feel like that particular benchmark might be one that hasn't had

00:28:30
 as much attention as as it may get in in the coming years. Yeah, and I also feel like the way that they I'm always kind of trying to read between the lines, right? Like at IO, at announcements, how are they messaging these things? What is their strategy? I you know, I went to school for PR and so I have like a little bit of a background in how you frame things. Yeah, how you see it and so they they tend to like really and they've done this for a long time but like rapid-fire announcements during IO. Like I think

00:29:04
 there was over 200 announcements at last year's keynote and it was just that was supposed to convey we're doing so much so fast like, you know, here's all this stuff and it kind of like, you know, it was so overload for the audience that you just assume they were kind of, you know, on the cutting edge of all of these things. They also the the strange thing I can't quite that I grapple with regularly is how they are so quick to talk about the users of AI overviews and of AI mode.

00:29:37
 It's like, well, you kind of forced it, right? Like this is sort of been forced into our search environment and to see them try to talk about it in the same way that Open AI, right, talks about and it's very it's we've never seen Google in this position before, right? Feeling like they're on their heels a bit competitively speaking and trying to catch up and finagle XYZ and I just I think we have to be really careful about the messages that we're receiving from some of these giants who again are

00:30:10
 trying to please shareholders. They're trying to please all of these other stakeholders that aren't necessarily direct customers and so I'm always wondering like, you know, we're how we're essentially the training data, right? We are in these free, you know, Gemini is on Gmail now. It's like how is that going to pan out long-term for those of us that that work with it in this way and so I don't know. There's a lot of kind of unintended consequences that we don't discuss enough

00:30:40
 and also a lot of smoke and mirrors happening at some of these demos where they're very quick to introduce like the kind of world models or visual model capabilities and you know you ask it you push it a little bit outside of what the demo was trying to show and it breaks right like there was a folded up chessboard in one of the demos at IO and I asked it like what's wrong with this chessboard it was only like half the squares right and it said nothing that's a full chessboard you know 8 by 8 squares da da da and I was

00:31:13
 like okay interesting but you're able to you know test it another one you like you know how many rings do I have it's not going to count like it's just again things that children would be really good at it it struggles and we've always known this right like AI is really good at solving hard problems and it's not great at solving easy stuff real world it's clear that it's like it's like an alien intelligence in a certain way it's not alien intelligence have you seen the

00:31:42
 demo of someone's like oh someone gave me this cup but it's sealed on the top and open on the bottom I can't drink out of it and they're like that's too bad like that's Sucks to be you. Such a shame. Like oh my god. Yeah or even just in the in the happens even just in the language space doesn't it there was the what was the thing recently of somebody asking should I drive or walk to the car wash you know it's only 100 yards away. And it's like oh yeah you should you

00:32:12
 should probably just walk there's no point taking a car 100 yards and it's it's that's not exactly world model I don't know what that is but it there's something some kind of deeper seated kind of understanding gap but like saying and yet then other times there it's kind of instantly you know reading a a long complex contract and spotting the typo on page 32 that you know like literally superhuman capabilities in other ways. So I I find so that actually segues quite nicely to one of the things that I want

00:32:49
 to ask you about is you obviously help folks stay on this kind of stay on the cutting edge use the latest and greatest tools that that they should be using. What's your best advice? It can it can feel so overwhelming right? Like either you you're like I'm just going to stick to the one I know or you're like constantly chopping and changing and never really you can spend all your time just trying to set up new tools and not getting anything done. So how are you like helping people through that?

00:33:17
 Yeah and I just want to recognize that's like a completely normal valid experience right now. Like it is analysis by paralysis. There's we are inundated and overwhelmed with new AI tools and this and that but I think it's really important to center how you approach this stuff not over the tools themselves or the technology but over problems real world problems. And so identifying just small specific tasks that you could help support or automate whether that is actually using the AI technology or using AI to kind of help

00:33:54
 you solve it. That's really where I see people gain confidence and momentum is take starting from an actual problem set and trying to trying to build solutions from there but it's only getting hands on with some of the tools. I I spoke with someone yesterday who what was what was he trying to build? I can't remember but he he couldn't do it and he he tried cloud code and chat GPT and was trying to figure out how to connect like these different data sources. That is a huge win. That that

00:34:29
 that experience is a huge W in my book and this is the part where most people get frustrated and stop. That is quite literally like the path to success. It is just paved in failure, failure, failure. And those things are teaching you so much about what works in working with the technology and what doesn't. Um and so I think again, this is a completely different experience from SEO where we read about it, we learn about it, we can start experimenting on a small kind of tested scale and and site.

00:35:04
 Working with AI isn't like that. It's extremely iterative where you are going to face way more failures than success, but that is quite literally how you learn and grow. And it's a large reason why I started Orange Labs was people tend to get so frustrated they quit. And so in a small kind of safe um environment um you go so much further, right? We're able to collaborate with people and help get them past some of these roadblocks. Lots of other um other people in the space are working

00:35:36
 with AI have brilliant ideas and it's just been so fun connecting those people and helping helping people kind of see that you know, even if you have no technical experience today, you are more than qualified, more than capable to be using this technology in a really advanced valuable ways for what you do on a day-to-day basis. It's just about putting that blueprint in place, giving you sort of um the runway to to experiment, to fail, you know, and supporting you through that process. And

00:36:09
 most of the time people are genuinely shocked at how how easy or how how capable they are at at spinning different things up through something like Cloud Code or um you know, Notebook LM. So it's it's just been fun to kind of help people like find to that cuz a lot of us, you know, myself included for the last 10 plus years struggled to find my way through all this stuff. You know, it was extremely frustrating. I, you know, and now that we have a chatbots and LLMs that we can actually ask some of these

00:36:45
 questions anytime of day. You know, I don't have to go through Stack Overflow and pray that someone answers my question. Like, it's amazing. So, I really feel like for those individuals curious or interested in the slightest, you kind of you have no excuse anymore. You know, you really have this advanced technology at your fingertips to support you with building and learning. They're incredibly skilled at spinning up different tools and I love like custom Chrome extensions. A lot of people don't realize you can

00:37:15
 build up build your own custom Chrome extensions that do really specific things and just live on your your Chrome install and and things like that. So, I think that's what's really going to help kind of evolve SEOs and marketers in our space is having an understanding of how not only how to work with this technology, but how to approach it in a way that actually they can see progress. They can see kind of ROI. Yeah. It's so difficult, isn't it? Cuz even when you get enthusiastically into it, it's quite

00:37:46
 hard to know where the boundary is between this is going to be a like a slightly frustrating but then magical experience where it completely works at the end of it and no this is like beyond the capabilities or the combination of my capabilities and the model's capabilities right now and that project is is not worth taking on cuz I'm going to have a very frustrating experience of you know, me prompting it, it going I've nearly got it. No, like trust me this this next go is definitely

00:38:11
 going to be the one. So, which is the you know, so one of those frustrating bugs in in the old school way of doing things and yeah, I I think I think probably the answer is just trying it, curiosity, showing it like like the show and tell type stuff like like you were saying. Um, but yeah, as you as you like bring it to your teams or your colleagues or or other folks around the business, it's it's just more of that. Yeah, just like showing them what what you're doing and asking being curious about what

00:38:40
 they're doing. Yeah, um, but it should be a collaborative experience. It should be hey, I had this idea. Here's how I'm going to try to build something. But exactly what you just said, Will, is probably the most common point of frustration for probably like honestly my students or people in the space are trying to learn about AI is they start too big. They want So many people want to build the everything dashboard that does everything for them that they can just click a button and it tells them

00:39:10
 what to optimize how to and like yeah, we can we can get there. In starting this journey and getting momentum in AI, you have to start small. You absolutely I can't stress that enough and people I think when I assign like the project in class of you have to identify a small specific task, if the word and is in it, it's too much. Like it lit like literally silly small. Start really really silly small because and people think that it's limiting them. Right? And my argument is no, no, no,

00:39:44
 no. You can always add features after you do this first small step. You really have to take on that engineering mindset where you're considering a task that you do regularly that's maybe quite time consuming and you're breaking it up into individual steps that you could literally write out and hand to a new intern in another room to complete. That's how specific and like small you need to break this up into and then just solve the first one, right? Just we'll build from there. Um, but I think that's

00:40:16
 where where people really run up against a hard stop with this technology is they're trying to do too much too quickly in it. You really learn through through small small steps. Small successful steps, I guess. Yeah, and and then you you get to see what what what really works. Um, awesome. Final thought, just as we as we bring this fascinating Thank you for you know, share sharing all this stuff. And and as I said, there's definitely some things I'm going to go straight away and try. Just really back to search to round

00:40:46
 things out. From all that you're seeing of the capabilities on the cutting edge and the progress that the different um, these different companies are are making, whether it's the the big established players like Google or the or the upstarts. What What do you think's coming next? Like Get break out the crystal ball. What What are we going to see coming to um, organic discovery in the broadest sense that that uh, is less common or or not there yet? Yeah, I fear that some of the um, sort of AI mode patent

00:41:22
 uh, items might come to fruition where they just stop showing the organic results. And it's an answer and in order for you to see the organic, maybe it's like a a small like, you know, expand or click more. Um, >> Yeah. That is that is definitely a concern. Um, that I see already starting to happen and honestly and how they're transforming the UI and to look more and more like that chat interface. Um, Yeah. And I I think an important thing to consider and how do you kind of combat

00:42:01
 that? How do you continue to be visible and show up? It really is this brand mention play, right? Being being visible in other places on the internet where maybe your audience is already there and can find you that way, but also kind of being included in these other sites that are showing up quite high for these queries. We're seeing some really interesting things take place where uh AI startup that I know through an advisor um really want to show up in AI search for these specific queries and they had

00:42:39
 just, you know, started. So, there was no chance they were going to do so. And so, they put a very expensive advertisement on one of the top most seen um websites that continues to surface and they started seeing visibility from that, right? They're now kind of included in that data that was pulled into amalgamate the answer. The This is a bit of the shift from traditional SEO will continue to be important because of the way these systems continue to grab those real-time search results, but in

00:43:12
 this particular case, it was so interesting because they didn't care about a link. They didn't care about a CTA. They literally just cared about that brand mention to be fed back into the LLMs to to be surfaced occasionally, right? Which has started to has actually started to happen. Um that's super interesting. I also think um SEOs and marketers should get ahead of the curve with like the social push because the one thing that Google and ChatGPT and these these AI tools can never replace is

00:43:49
 real-world experiences, real-world anecdotes and stories and opinions and hot takes. And so, that's why you saw and continue to see Google lean heavily on Reddit with their $60 million a year deal because it supplements what AI can never ever ever touch. They know that. People continue to, you know, crave videos and people and experiences. And so, we're seeing a huge push in social continuing to pop up among these AI answers in an effort to give searchers to give users that option, to give them

00:44:26
 that visibility into, you know, um into those spaces. So, to be And we know that the systems are also transcribing these videos. So, there are some really savvy marketers right now that are going hard on social videos and they strategically put like their target market information at the beginning of the video, right? They know this is will be transcribed. They know that they want to convey like key information and valuable insights right away because that is transcribed and used in the back end.

00:44:59
 So, thinking about kind of the systems in this kind of new oriented way um will be really really important. So much to uh get to grips with, isn't there? And it keeps changing all the time. So, maybe we we have to do this again. But in the meantime, uh another shout-out. Folks should check out orangelabs.co for your uh community and dive in more into all of that side of things. And if people want to hear more, where are you Where are you most active on the internet these days? Most active on LinkedIn, for sure. So,

00:45:32
 just Brittany Muller over on LinkedIn. And yeah, I try to try to add some valuable educational pieces when I can. There's so much in there, yeah. Everything from the the the the grounding, the rag stuff, the uh all all these different um different things that that I've been getting from from your LinkedIn. So, um folks should definitely check that out. In the meantime, Brittany, thank you. It's been uh it's been really fun catching up. And uh yeah, good luck with the the next cohort

00:46:00
 of uh of folks that you're taking on this journey. Thank you so much, Will. I really appreciate it. See you soon. Bye.

